toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/data/deletion-request-ping.rst, before:

"deletion-request" ping
=======================

This ping is submitted when a user opts out of sending technical and interaction data to Mozilla.
(In other words, when the
``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled``
:doc:`preference <../internals/preferences>` is set to ``false``.)

This ping contains the client id.
This ping does not contain any environment data.

This ping is intended to communicate to the Data Pipeline that the user wishes
to have their reported Telemetry data deleted.
As such it attempts to send itself at the moment the user opts out of data collection,
and continues to try and send itself.

This ping contains scalars present in the "deletion-request" store.

Structure:

.. code-block:: js

    {
      version: 4,
      type: "deletion-request",
      ... common ping data (including clientId)
      payload: {
        scalars: {
          <process-type>: { // like "parent" or "content"
            <id name>: <id>, // like "deletion.request.impression_id": "<RFC 4122 GUID>"
          },
        },
      }
    }

Expected behaviours
-------------------
The following is a list of expected behaviours for the ``deletion-request`` ping:

- Telemetry will try to send the ping even if upload is disabled.
- Telemetry may persist this ping if it can't be immediately sent, and may try to resend it later.

Version History
---------------

- Firefox 72:

  - "deletion-request" ping replaces the "optout" ping (`bug 1585410 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1585410>`_).

- Firefox 73:

  - Added support for subordinate ids in the "deletion-request" store (`bug 1604312 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1604312>`_).

Commit message:

feat: update thunderbird to 1%115.8.0
mail/news client with RSS, chat and integrated spam filter support

Issue: https://github.com/linuxdeepin/developer-center/issues/7284
Log: update repo

toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/data/deletion-request-ping.rst, after:

"deletion-request" ping
=======================

This ping is submitted when a user opts out of sending technical and interaction data to Mozilla.
(In other words, when the
``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled``
:doc:`preference <../internals/preferences>` is set to ``false``.)

This ping contains the client id.
This ping does not contain any environment data.

This ping is intended to communicate to the Data Pipeline that the user wishes
to have their reported Telemetry data deleted.
As such it attempts to send itself at the moment the user opts out of data collection,
and continues to try and send itself.

This ping contains scalars present in the "deletion-request" store.

Structure:

.. code-block:: js

    {
      version: 4,
      type: "deletion-request",
      ... common ping data (including clientId)
      payload: {
        scalars: {
          <process-type>: { // like "parent" or "content"
            <id name>: <id>, // like "deletion.request.impression_id": "<RFC 4122 GUID>"
          },
        },
      }
    }

Expected behaviours
-------------------
The following is a list of expected behaviours for the ``deletion-request`` ping:

- Telemetry will try to send the ping even if upload is disabled.
- Telemetry may persist this ping if it can't be immediately sent, and may try to resend it later.

Analysis Gotchas
----------------
It is `known <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1741252>`_ that,
on a release week, "deletion-request" pings from the previous release version will spike in volume.

There is a strong geo component to these spikes (China and Russia mostly).
The pings behave like they're coming from real Firefox instances (one per ``client_id``).
However, we've received no "main" pings from these clients from the previous 28 days
(per ``clients_last_seen``) which makes them rather unusual.

We suspect this is some sort of automation or pseudo-automation.

Including these pings in our self-service deletion processes doesn't make them any slower,
and ingesting them isn't breaking the bank, so at time of writing we're inclined to take a
"document and then ignore" approach.

Version History
---------------

- Firefox 72:

  - "deletion-request" ping replaces the "optout" ping (`bug 1585410 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1585410>`_).

- Firefox 73:

  - Added support for subordinate ids in the "deletion-request" store (`bug 1604312 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1604312>`_).
