docs/bug-mgmt/guides/severity.rst, before:

Defect Severity
===============

Definition
----------

We use the ``severity`` field in Bugzilla to indicate the scope of a
bug's effect on Firefox.

The field is display alongside the bug's priority.

Values
------

`Severities are
enumerated <https://wiki.mozilla.org/BMO/UserGuide/BugFields#severity>`__
as:

-  ``--``: Default for new bugs
-  ``N/A``: (not applicable): Only applies to bugs of type Task or Enhancement.
-  ``S1``: (Catastrophic) Blocks development/testing, may impact more than 25%
     of users, causes data loss, potential chemspill, and no workaround available
-  ``S2``: (Serious) Major Functionality/product severely impaired and a
     satisfactory workaround doesn't exist
-  ``S3``: (Normal) Blocks non-critical functionality and a work around exists
-  ``S4``: (Small/Trivial) minor significance, cosmetic issues, low or no impact to users

By default, new bugs have a severity of ``--``.

Examples of S1 bugs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  WebExtensions disabled for all users
-  Web search not working from URL bar
-  Crashes with data loss

Examples of S2 bugs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Bugs that could reasonably be expected to cause a Firefox user to switch browsers,
either because the severity is bad enough, or the frequency of occurrence is high enough.

-  `Bug 1640441 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1640441>`__ - Slack hangs
   indefinitely in a onResize loop
-  `Bug 1645651 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1645651>`__ - Changes in
   Reddit's comment section JS code makes selecting text slow on Nightly

Bugs involving contractual partners (if not an S1)

Bugs reported from QA

-  `Bug 1640913 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1640913>`__ - because an
   important message is not visible with the dark theme. It's not marked as S1 since the
   issue is reproducible only on one OS and the functionality is not affected.
-  `Bug 1641521 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1641521>`__ - because videos
   are not working on several sites with ETP on (default). This is not an S1 since turning
   ETP off fixes the issue.

Examples of S3 bugs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Bugs filed by contributors as part of daily refactoring and maintenance of the code base.

`Bug 1634171 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1634171>`__ - Visual artifacts around circular images

Bugs reported from QA

-  `Bug 1635105 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1635105>`__ because
   the associated steps to reproduce are uncommon,
   and the issue is no longer reproducible after refresh.
-  `Bug 1636063 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1636063>`__ since it's
   reproducible only on a specific web app, and only with a particular set of configurations.


Rules of thumb
--------------

-  *A crash may be be a ``S1`` or ``S2`` defect, but not all crashes are
   critical defects*
-  High severity defects (``S1`` or ``S2``) do not need to be assigned
   immediately as they will be reviewed by Engineering Leadership, QA, and
   Release Management
-  The severity of most bugs of type ``task`` and ``enhancement`` will be
   ``N/A``
-  **Do not** assign bugs of type ``defect`` the severity ``N/A``

Commit message:

feat: update thunderbird to 1%115.8.0
mail/news client with RSS, chat and integrated spam filter support

Issue: https://github.com/linuxdeepin/developer-center/issues/7284
Log: update repo

docs/bug-mgmt/guides/severity.rst, after:

Defect Severity
===============

Definition
----------

We use the ``severity`` field in Bugzilla to indicate the scope of a
bug's effect on Firefox.

The field is display alongside the bug's priority.

Values
------

Severity levels and their definitions are enumerated at https://wiki.mozilla.org/BMO/UserGuide/BugFields#bug_severity.

By default, new bugs have a severity of ``--``.

Examples of S1 bugs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  WebExtensions disabled for all users
-  Web search not working from URL bar
-  Crashes with data loss

Examples of S2 bugs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Bugs that could reasonably be expected to cause a Firefox user to switch browsers,
either because the severity is bad enough, or the frequency of occurrence is high enough.

-  `Bug 1640441 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1640441>`__ - Slack hangs
   indefinitely in a onResize loop
-  `Bug 1645651 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1645651>`__ - Changes in
   Reddit's comment section JS code makes selecting text slow on Nightly

Bugs involving contractual partners (if not an S1)

Bugs reported from QA

-  `Bug 1640913 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1640913>`__ - because an
   important message is not visible with the dark theme. It's not marked as S1 since the
   issue is reproducible only on one OS and the functionality is not affected.
-  `Bug 1641521 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1641521>`__ - because videos
   are not working on several sites with ETP on (default). This is not an S1 since turning
   ETP off fixes the issue.

Fuzzblocker bugs, which prevent fuzzing from making progress

Examples of S3 bugs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Bugs filed by contributors as part of daily refactoring and maintenance of the code base.

`Bug 1634171 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1634171>`__ - Visual artifacts around circular images

Bugs reported from QA

-  `Bug 1635105 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1635105>`__ because
   the associated steps to reproduce are uncommon,
   and the issue is no longer reproducible after refresh.
-  `Bug 1636063 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1636063>`__ since it's
   reproducible only on a specific web app, and only with a particular set of configurations.


Rules of thumb
--------------

-  The severity of most bugs of type ``task`` and ``enhancement`` will be
   ``N/A``
-  **Do not** assign bugs of type ``defect`` the severity ``N/A``
