mobile/android/docs/geckoview/contributor/index.rst, before:

.. -*- Mode: rst; fill-column: 80; -*-

=========================
Contributing to GeckoView
=========================

Contributor Site
================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   geckoview-quick-start
   for-gecko-engineers
   mc-quick-start
   contributing-to-mc
   native-debugging

If you want to run GeckoView from code, or start contributing back to
the project, here you will find resources to help you do that.

-  `GeckoView Contributor Quick Start Guide <geckoview-quick-start.html>`_:
   Get GeckoView set up for development.
-  `GeckoView for Gecko Engineers <for-gecko-engineers.html>`_: A
   quick-start guide for those already familiar with contributing to
   Firefox development.
-  `Mozilla Central Quick Start Guide <mc-quick-start.html>`_: Get Mozilla
   Central set up for development.
-  `Mozilla Central Contributor Guide <contributing-to-mc.html>`_: Get
   started as a contributor to Mozilla Central.
-  `Guide to Native Debugging in Android Studio <native-debugging.html>`_:
   Set up Android Studio for debugging native code.

If there is documentation that you feel is missing, or an existing
document doesn’t cover the aspect that you are looking for, please
request it by raising an issue on our `documentation
site <https://github.com/mozilla/geckoview/issues>`_.

Commit message:

feat: update thunderbird to 1%115.8.0
mail/news client with RSS, chat and integrated spam filter support

Issue: https://github.com/linuxdeepin/developer-center/issues/7284
Log: update repo

mobile/android/docs/geckoview/contributor/index.rst, after:

.. -*- Mode: rst; fill-column: 80; -*-

=========================
Contributing to GeckoView
=========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:
   :hidden:

   *

-  `Contributor Quick Start Guide <geckoview-quick-start.html>`_:
   Get GeckoView set up for development.
-  `GeckoView for Gecko Engineers <for-gecko-engineers.html>`_: A
   quick-start guide for those already familiar with contributing to
   Firefox development.
-  `Mozilla Central Quick Start Guide <mc-quick-start.html>`_: Get Mozilla
   Central set up for development.
-  `Mozilla Central Contributor Guide <contributing-to-mc.html>`_: Get
   started as a contributor to Mozilla Central.
-  `Guide to Native Debugging in Android Studio <native-debugging.html>`_:
   Set up Android Studio for debugging native code.
-  `Architecture overview <geckoview-architecture.html>`_: An overview of
   GeckoView's architecture.
-  `Junit Test Framework <junit.html>`_: An overview of GeckoView's custom
   Junit code.
-  `apilint <apilint.html>`_: GeckoView's linter for the API.
